Let's discuss the missing data problem.
We dislike missing values since they are likely to dictate
the quality of our machine learning model.
Missing data is a very common problem in machine learning, and the
common causes of missing values could be front end systems might
have certain fields marked as optional,
and hence no value is entered, or we might have introduced new
columns that did not have values in the past, but it could be even a
failure of our input systems, for example,
a remote sensors that sends monitoring information might
fail to send updates for some time.
So let's see what possible options we can do to handle missing data.
The first technique to deal with missing data is to drop
them, and the good side of that is simple.
However,
we will risk losing useful information that could
have made our model learning better.
I would not recommend this approach unless you are absolutely
sure that we'll not miss valuable information.
The second technique would be simply involve ignoring missing values.
This only works with some machine learning algorithms that
are aware enough to automatically ignore missing values
such as k‑nearest neighbors,
Some other algorithms will use the missing values as
unique value when building predictive models, such as
classification and regression trees.
Finally,
it worth noting that this is implementation specific since some
implementations are not robust against missing values.
The manual of your library is your friend.
The third technique would be imputing the missing value and
this can be done using different techniques.
We can replace the missing value using either mean, the median, or the mode
and recall those approaches the unit variant approach. Replacement with mode
is more common with the categorical features.
Another option is to predict the missing values using the
machine learning algorithms. In simple words,
developing a supervised machine learning model from other
features to detect the missing values, and this is called the multivariate approach.